HTTP in detail:



GET Request
This is used for getting information from a web server.

POST Request
This is used for submitting data to the web server and potentially creating new records

PUT Request
This is used for submitting data to a web server to update information

DELETE Request
This is used for deleting information/records from a web server.


HTTP status code:


100-199 - Information Response	 These are sent to tell the client the first part of their request has been accepted and they should continue sending the rest of their request. These codes are no longer very common.

200-299 - Success	This range of status codes is used to tell the client their request was successful.

300-399 - Redirection	These are used to redirect the client's request to another resource. This can be either to a different webpage or a different website altogether.

400-499 - Client Errors	Used to inform the client that there was an error with their request.

500-599 - Server Errors	This is reserved for errors happening on the server-side and usually indicate quite a major problem with the server handling the request.

More common status code:
200 - OK	The request was completed successfully.

201 - Created	A resource has been created (for example a new user or new blog post).

301 - Permanent Redirect	This redirects the client's browser to a new webpage or tells search engines that the page has moved somewhere else and to look there instead.

302 - Temporary Redirect	Similar to the above permanent redirect, but as the name suggests, this is only a temporary change and it may change again in the near future.

400 - Bad Request	This tells the browser that something was either wrong or missing in their request. This could sometimes be used if the web server resource that is being requested expected a certain parameter that the client didn't send.

401 - Not Authorized	You are not currently allowed to view this resource until you have authorized with the web application, most commonly with a username and password.

403 - Forbidden	 You do not have permission to view this resource whether you are logged in or not.

405 - Method Not Allowed	The resource does not allow this method request, for example, you send a GET request to the resource /create-account when it was expecting a POST request instead.

404 - Page Not Found	The page/resource you requested does not exist.

500 - Internal Service Error	The server has encountered some kind of error with your request that it doesn't know how to handle properly.

503 - Service Unavailable	
This server cannot handle your request as it's either overloaded or down for maintenance.





Set-Cookie: Information to store which gets sent back to the web server on each request (see cookies task for more information).

Cache-Control: How long to store the content of the response in the browser's cache before it requests it again.

Content-Type: This tells the client what type of data is being returned, i.e., HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Images, PDF, Video, etc. Using the content-type header the browser then knows how to process the data.

Content-Encoding: What method has been used to compress the data to make it smaller when sending it over the internet.

HTTP stands for HyperText Transfer Protocol
HTTPS stands for HyperText Transfer Protocol Secure
